---
layout: page
title: Wikipedia graph structure
---

#### The wikispeedia graph
When we think of wikipedia as a graph, we imagine nodes (articles) linked to others by directed edges (hyperlinks). We call a link Source a wikipedia page and a link Target a link in a source.
Let's look at the distribution of all the wikispeedia nodes:

{% include link_target_source_jointplot.html %}

<div class="alert-success">
In the joint distribution which shows a high density with some outliers. The Wikipedia_Text_of_the_GNU_Free_Documentation_License is a link appearing on all pages but having only one outgoing link, itself. People might click on it by curiosity but would get stuck and would have to go back. We can thus safely remove it from the paths and articles as it shifts uselessly the means and other statistics.
</div>

Beyond counting links, we can use graph centrality measures to identify influential articles. 
Here we compute HITS scores (hubs and authorities) and PageRank values for all pages in the Wikipedia graph.

The HITS algorithm identifies two types of central nodes: hubs (pages pointing to many authoritative pages) and authorities (pages pointed to by many hubs). 
PageRank evaluates the overall importance of a page in the graph, taking into account both the quantity and quality of incoming links. 
Comparing these measures with the simple link counts shows that some pages are structurally important even if they do not have the highest number of direct links.

{% include HITS_plot.html %}
<div class="alert-success">
Hits confirms that the greatest authorities are geographical but the biggest hubs are lists. They don't contain a lot of information but acts like directories. "Driving_on_the_left_or_right" is certainly a list of countries is thus very powerful in wikispeedia.
</div>

#### Link position
However, when playing wikispeedia, you are not just given a list of edges. You have a lot of text structured in sections, with some hyperlinks in it. You will always see the links appearing in the lead section or the infobox. But how many times will you scroll down the whole english history page to find **the** link you need?

It is thus important to look at the links placement in the articles:

{% include hyperlink_section_donut.html %}
TODO: add histogram of relative distance instead of absolute like in notebook

<div class="alert-success">
We see that that most links are placed at the [beginning of the pages]({{ '/story/1_b' | relative_url }}). The lead section contains 17.5% of the links while it is much smaller than the body (TODO plot to show that?) 
</div>

But how useful are these links for wikispeedia? The first links could only link to small hubs or be repeatitive.