---
layout: page
title: "Part 2.a"
subtitle: "General player behaviour"
---

We have analyzed the [structure of Wikipedia's]({{ '/story/1_a' | relative_url }}) hyperlinks graph. 
Let's now see if it reflects the players behaviour.

<div class="alert-danger">
The following plot shows an histogram of the number of clicks per article. Notice that the y-axis is logarithmic.
</div>

{% include plot_articles_clicks.html %}

<div class="alert-success">
Most article received a low amount of clicks but there are some outliers! In fact, the articles that received the most clicks are hubs (see below).
</div>

If players play smartly, they should click on articles that are hubs. We can see if there is any correlation between the number of clicks and the number of incoming links. We expect to see the top [HITS]({{ '/story/others/HITS' | relative_url }}) articles being clicked more often. Both because they are more useful to get quickly to the goal and because they appear often.

{% include plot_correlations_plotly.html %}

<div class="alert-success" markdown="1">
[Pearson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearson_correlation_coefficient) correlation is 0.7725 and Spearman correlation is 0.8588 on a log-log scale, which means that there is a power correlation between the number of clicks and the number of incoming links.
</div>

Let us have a look at the most clicked articles:

| article        | number of clicks |
| -------------- | ---------------: |
| United_States  |            12164 |
| Euro           |             6433 |
| Europe         |             6366 |
| United_Kingdom |             5138 |
| Earth          |             4629 |
| England        |             4285 |
| Africa         |             3449 |
| World_War_I    |             3414 |
| Computer       |             2893 |
| World_War_II   |             2841 |

This matches most of our top 10 [HITS]({{ '/story/others/HITS' | relative_url }}) Authortities as hypothetised.

However, wikispeedia games have a low chance of beginning or finishing at a top authority. Players must thus "home out" and go from their initial page to hubs and then "home in" to get to their target.

To confirm this, we can look at the size of the hubs (in term of number of incoming links for example) players click througout the game.

<div class="alert-danger">
This plot shows the average number of incoming and outgoing links across all articles at each relative position along paths. The relative position of a link is the position of the link divided by the total length of the path.
</div>

{% include hubness_relative.html %}

<div class="alert-success">
On the plot we can see that people tend to go to hubs at the beginning and then click on less articles with less links in as they advance in the game. 
</div>

Players, in average, follow a similar strategy. And their clicking is clearly not random. 

If would want to replicate a player behaviour, random picks would not be sufficient. We will come to that later...

We only did look at the articles players clicked on in term of "hubness" but do player also click on certain articles based on their position? 

Are players [lazy]({{ '/story/2_b' | relative_url }}) and only select the first links they choose? Let's find out!

